Add a guide for deleting cluster queues. (#2921)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: site/content/en/docs/tasks/troubleshooting/troubleshooting_delete_clusterqueue.md

---
title: "Troubleshooting delete ClusterQueue"
date: 2024-08-28
weight: 5
---

> Deleting a ClusterQueue can be a bit complex when there are active Workloads. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deleting a ClusterQueue might require additional steps when it has active Workloads. 
```

This guide provides a clear approach to safely deleting a ClusterQueue,
explaining the process and offering alternative methods to handle specific scenarios.

> For this example, let's assume your ClusterQueue is named `my-cq`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, assume your ClusterQueue is named `my-cq`.
```

## Understanding `kubectl delete clusterqueue`

> When you run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run the following command:
```

```sh
kubectl delete clusterqueue my-cq
```

you are initiating the deletion of the ClusterQueue object. 
However, if there are Workloads still utilizing the ClusterQueue, the command may hang or take some time to complete.

## Why does this happen?

Kueue creates a [Workload](/docs/concepts/workload/) object for each Job to track its admission status. 
If a Workload is admitted, it is associated with a specific ClusterQueue. 
Kueue uses a [finalizer](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/) 

> called kueue.x-k8s.io/resource-in-use to prevent deletion of the ClusterQueue while resources are still in use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
called `kueue.x-k8s.io/resource-in-use` to prevent deletion of the ClusterQueue while resources are still in use. 
```

Consequently, a ClusterQueue with this finalizer cannot be deleted until all resources are released.

> ## How to resolve this issue?

Reviewer: Maybe we can remove this section and just leave `How to stop the ClusterQueue?` below.

> To delete a ClusterQueue, first stop it by applying a [StopPolicy](/docs/concepts/cluster_queue/#stoppolicy) with `HoldAndDrain`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a ClusterQueue, you can first stop all the admitted Workloads by applying the [StopPolicy](/docs/concepts/cluster_queue/#stoppolicy) `HoldAndDrain`. 
```

> This will evict all associated Workloads and release the resources, allowing the ClusterQueue to be deleted without issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will evict all associated Workloads and release the resources, allowing the ClusterQueue to be deleted immediately.
```

default     my-job-job-4gk8s-7b737   job        my-job-4gk8s   my-lq        my-cq           ADMITTED                       27m
default     my-job-job-826hp-caa72   job        my-job-826hp   my-lq        my-cq           ADMITTED                       1h
```

### Using `kubectl` and `grep`

Alternatively, you can use `kubectl` with `grep`:

```shell
kueuectl get workload -A | grep my-cq
```

Example output:

```shell
default     my-job-4gk8s-7b737   my-lq   my-cq   True                  30m
default     my-job-826hp-caa72   my-lq   my-cq   True                  30m
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
The grep command only filters lines based on the specified pattern. 
It might return additional Workloads if the Workload name or LocalQueue name includes the same name as the ClusterQueue.
{{% /alert %}}

## How to stop the ClusterQueue?

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
If no Workloads are found for the specified ClusterQueue, you can skip the stopping step and proceed directly to deleting the ClusterQueue.
{{% /alert %}}

### Using `kueuectl`

To stop the ClusterQueue, run:

```shell

> kueuectl stop clusterqueue my-cq

Reviewer: does this Drain by default?

Author: Yes, we have `--keep-already-running` flag (look [here](https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/reference/kubectl-kueue/commands/kueuectl_stop/kueuectl_stop_clusterqueue/#options.))

> To stop the ClusterQueue, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stop all the jobs in a ClusterQueue and prevent new jobs from being admitted by it, run the following command:
```
